Okay,
we are live here.
Hello.
It's almost four
about two hours.
We just want to figure out
just want to figure out whether we can
get some sort of
train on world model thing to work.
Odd.
Very very odd.
The fact that this didn't work.
So, I tried to like to be fair, I didn't
actually
try this for very long. Um,
I basically I tried to give it the real
OBS action data
and it still didn't work.
Seems very off to me.
Try this.
Even if this works, it's not going to
tell me very much, right?
I mean, this is like barely
barely better than uh trivial.
That's with one step.
How could this possibly be the case?
literally here.
We could say
it could be the rewards and terminals.
We could say that, right?
Now it's literally just the onestep ops
predictions, right?
So odd.
Something's just got to be off
the way that this thing is behaving.
This does this does not make any sense
to me that this is possibly so bad,
right?
Like we have
we have the
real data version.
Welcome YouTube folks.
Got the real data version.
Then it starts to take off.
I suppose though that unstable bit at
the start really makes this a tough uh
environment
to play around with, right? Because
you're literally not going to see
anything until it really works.
Hey, welcome
The thing I don't understand though,
wait, is it actually like this in um in
the full case?
If I just comment all of this crap
and I just put this here.
I think it was
It takes 10 million steps. It says
10 12 million steps.
And then if I do
audits new values,
I do this version.
See
if it takes 10 mil.
Uh, okay. So, this is weird, right?
This really doesn't seem to be behaving
identically to me.
See if I missed something.
This one here, you got
state jobs and state log action right
here.
Value
action.
No.
This seems like it really should be
identical to me.
just throwing me for a loop.
They should be identical.
There's some like bizarro stability
thing.
[Music]
this noise.
Doesn't seem like it.
take off until like 20 mil.
Even then, it's more unstable.
A fan of that.
different friend.
this.
Oh, wait. What?
Okay.
Fine.
Yeah. Okay. Like fine, I guess.
I'm trying to think what steps I can
take here.
I guess what we can do.
Try something.
Can I do like this?
This.
Okay.
Now,
no.
Try this.
Literally just has to predict the next
observation. Nothing else.
If this doesn't work, then like
this is just way too fiddly, I suppose.
Like the base method is too fiddly. If
this doesn't work,
I'll have to work on figuring out why
the base meth.
Seems like that's the case.
See if we can get a uh a betteration.
Naturally, this is going to be more.
Hey, Weston.
Oh, that's way worse.
Repeat.
Nope.
It's stable. It just takes a while,
right?
Okay. Well, this actually does get it a
little faster.
Probably makes the convergence worse,
but we'll do this for a little bit.
See if we can get the
new data model.
This one
Okay, that one works.
Very nice.
This is the new data, new real data.
Okay. So now we can go from this to uh
variations on imagined data.
It's slightly more confidence than
before.
Okay, so this is the onestep model.
This not working seems
Oh, we're not RLing the world model,
dummy.
Training the world model.
It's not working. So implausible to me.
Just like
completely implausible unless I've
actually done something wrong.
Well, I'll go.
The world model is
uh a supervised learning. It's learned
uh it's supervised learning
and it's predicting the next state that
we can do RL on the world model.
So it's neither really
an auxiliary to the RL algorithm
that stands in for the real environment.
Do jobs.
Maybe we need to do this.
There's no way that some form of this
doesn't.
No way at all.
Okay.
Onestep observation predictions only.
Meeting is fun. Jess,
I do so hate to break up my day with
meetings, though.
entropy has crashed.
How the heck
How the heck is entropy crashed?
in this bizaar.
did not seem bizarre that the entropy is
that crashy.
UI is so much satisfying. Yeah, I like
the puffer UI.
I added the uh the fish swimming in 3 0.
I thought it would be amusing.
Ah,
there we go.
So, that's only a one-step observation
prediction.
quite unstable as well.
Something though
very unstable.
The only thing that this is doing is
using one step worth of hallucinated
observations.
He is so low is weird.
level of performance mean
good I mean it means that there's like a
big gap that's being caused by purely
the uh the singlestep prediction and
nothing else at the very least.
which seems bizarre to me.
data.
Yeah, it works.
We should double check just to be sure
that with this high entropy
that it still works.
It's possible the entropy screws it
over. We'll see.
No. Look at that.
So literally the only difference being
the obs prediction of the world model.
Literally the only friends.
Hi Joseph, we discussed Cena starting
digging into puffer again. I was
surprised to see Pokemon red M is part
of puffer tank due to provide
rapper to reach faster SPF. Yeah. Um,
Pokemon's a decent bit faster with
puffer than outside of puffer. Like we
can't obviously make it anywhere near as
fast as our other environments. I think
people were getting somewhere between
like seven and 9,000 steps per second
training or whatever we would on that
project.
It's mainly just our multipprocessing is
faster and our training is lower
overhead. You don't get as much benefit
because of how slow the end is to begin
with.
There's no way I've done this
reconstruction loss wrong. Right.
Now what
just for the heck of
Crazy.
Okay.
Like moderately ridiculous, right?
I'm pretty sure that the uh
other way doesn't do anything either.
model are you using? You can see it.
It's just um I just have some basic
encoder decoder
25%.
breakout on Atari breakout or on puffer
breakout.
Puffer breakouts should be like stupid
fast.
I get up to 4 million step per second
training on breakout.
I don't believe for a second it's just
like
you have to have RSSM or some [__]
right?
Maybe you do need memory though, right?
I wouldn't be surprised if you do
like you literally do need memory to
know what way the ball is going, don't
you?
That's probably Mad.
Yeah, it's kind of tricky to do that
unfortunately. Peru
station.
Yeah, it should be quite fast normally
like at least like a million or whatever
even on low-end hardware.
Yeah, you because you can't train the
world model without having um
you can't train the world model without
having data
like what you're going to train it on
the like breakout failing to break any
bricks. Like that's not usable data,
right?
Yeah, 3.9 mil is about close to as good
as it gets
the current settings.
build the data with a random agent. If
you build the data with a random agent,
yeah, then it's not going to be any good
data, right? That'll work on like
cartpole, but that won't work on
anything at all more complex.
Like you can't train a world model
without an agent.
Can't train the agent data efficient
without the world model. So, which came
first, the chicken or the egg? And no, I
don't care if that question has an
actual scientific answer.
Honestly, all the ones I've heard are
stupid. Anyways,
the theme of the stream
Ah, I
What is wrong with this
go work.
Why not?
Am
I like
Oh,
I don't know how that happened.
That was weird. Must have like deleted a
character without realizing Okay.
Well, it has memory now.
Doesn't seem to do much for it.
How's it
Yeah.
This is still the onestep like what
should be super easy task.
Not crushing it either.
This seems just like really bad to me in
general.
Noxious.
It's crazy to me like no version of this
has been good,
right? Like literally no version of this
has been Good.
even on the simplest possible version of
this task, right?
Crazy.
It's completely unsatisfying to me
that this behaves in such a manner
like how Right.
How can it possibly
try pong?
There's a there's actually there are a
couple things in my mind.
We're not going to admit defeat just
yet. All right.
entropy.
Okay, look at that. So that's
very nice solve on break on pong
instantly, right?
So this should be dramatically easier to
model.
There you go.
So that's only for onestep predictions
though.
Not impressive at all. Okay,
we're going to build up from here.
Can we run is it too ambitious
if we just say
it we use the full world model on this
problem
and we do that.
Uh, we're not out of the woods at all.
It's still um
It's still like giga cursed.
This
I mean, this is what I was like, my
whole thing was unccurse reinforcement
learning for like a good year while I
was building up to Puffer 3. And we
actually we got it to work, but only in
the high data regime, right?
Okay. I mean, this does appear to be
training
at least something.
Not great, mind you.
does train.
You should be able to do more mini
batches on this, right?
magic.
Yeah.
I mean, a lot of the stuff I've written,
right, helps kind of demystify a little
bit.
It's the reason it's black magic is not
a good reason. It's that it's like the
science and the engineering has just
been done in a way that's incredibly
crap.
At least we have a version of this.
version of this that does work.
The thing that I realized
was that um
so the observations of breakout
like individual variables will change
Like so you'll have like 118 numbers or
whatever and like one of them will
change.
It's actually a kind of weird thing to
do with just a mean squared error.
Don't tell me this isn't going to work
now somehow.
really.
Uh, what changed?
No, it wasn't that.
Heck is the
Okay, there isn't one noise.
Um,
it probably needs to know it's like its
forces or something, right?
Don't you need like you compute the
force on the foot anyways, don't you?
It needs all the information that you
would expect to need in order to make
decisions in the same situation.
Try sticking your uh your feet in a tub
of ice for a while and then try walking.
Don't actually do that though. You'll
lose your feet.
Okay. So it is dependent here on
optimizing the heck out of the world
model.
get horses.
Oh, fair. Um, if you want to get it on a
real robot, you'd have to figure out
what sensors they actually have
and give it that information.
not optimize.
You can't teach it much more directly
without domain knowledge though. That's
the problem.
Like, yeah, it's breakout, so you could
show it how to play the game, but I can
give this thing a hideously complex
optimization problem over which you have
no intuition, and it'll just kick your
ass.
We use games so that we can understand
what's going on, not so that the agent
can.
They don't. Humans are not tabular raso.
We are not blank slates.
Humans have billions of years of
evolutionary priors baked in.
I mean, we have access to a truly
ludicrous amount of highfidelity data as
well.
There are a lot of differences.
This is promising.
You show your current setup.
What do you mean?
Oh, yeah. Not really. The way this is
set up, um, it's just like a random
office. I've got this ring light down
here where I can't even clamp it to this
desk. So, it's just this is just sitting
here like blinding. You can see.
Then I've got this boom mic arm over
here.
I've got um one vert monitor here, one
horizontal monitor, and I've got like a
small desktop on the desk. That's about
it.
What happened to this? It crashed.
Destabilized. Huh?
Dang.
I am starting to lose faith in this
approach a little bit
at least as a like a smooth scaling
thing.
It seems to me like these approaches are
fundamentally going to take a lot more
compute.
It takes quite a bit to train the world
model.
I have to do some thinking. Okay.
Get out of here, bot.
Get out.
start a series of live instead of rand
developing
randomly developing.
Yeah, you don't want to slow the process
down is the thing. Like
I don't Do you realize the implications
of if any of the stuff I'd done in the
last couple weeks had worked?
So basically if I solve this problem
that I'm trying to solve immediately.
Um,
it pretty much puts RL
billions of dollars worth of use across
industry
is what it would enable.
I mean, more than that though, like it
would actually make RL
like a really generally useful tech if I
just get some version of this idea to
work in puffer like with puffer quality
engineering and stuff.
It's not a small thing.
The world model is so unstable.
Yeah, exactly.
Uh, that's so obnoxious though that it
doesn't
Yeah, we don't we avoid the politically
adjacent
slogans. I try to keep all my content
purely science.
with some small detours for fitness
because it's good to keep people in
shape.
I've gotten many people to actually
start exercising again is good.
Did my 10k today was fastest time so
far. This training block 106
is slow for a 10k but it's a very hard
course.
No.
Yeah, this is true. The problem
something is that the work I'm doing
right now, it's like
building new M and stuff is the easiest
spot to get new people involved. This
stuff is like really freaking hard
research.
How fast does dreamer run normally?
How many times faster would puffer be in
comparison? Oh jeez. Like 10,000 times.
Is that right?
No. More
times 100 thou somewhere between 10 and
100,000 times. Dreamer slow as hell.
So basically, yeah. Um, FBR, this is the
thing that I'm worried about, right? Is
that like it's not like, oh, none of
these world model approaches will work
at all. But I think it's like I don't
know if there's any version of them that
work without just ludicrous quantities
of compute.
Like I think that basically
what happens and I think that I what I
figured out is that these world modeling
approaches they get data so slowly that
the world model really doesn't need to
change that much very quickly right
because the data stream is changing so
slowly
and they're using like a ton a ton of
compute for training the world model
and if you're getting data faster
It's really difficult to keep the world
model up.
I actually have done that a few times,
Jess. For whatever dumb reason, the uh
Reream has it, but it doesn't work with
over three hour streams. And most of my
streams are over three hours.
Yes, our PO no our PO implementation has
genuine algorithmic contributions as
well. There's an article on it on X.
So, we do have we have the best high
data regime RL.
Really not liking this direction now.
Try like this.
Then we're going to say
512.
Here's the restroom real quick and then
I'll think about I got to think about
this stuff. This is just so so
incredibly obnoxious.
And it's still unsteal
for popular 4.
bridge the sample efficiency gap.
So like basically have the algorithm be
such that you can smoothly invest more
compute in order to get uh better
results with less data.
It's crazy that basically
the only thing that we have that
actually works
is large batch
on policy RL. That's what we have that
works.
So off policy
I mean, I think I I've gained some
valuable information at the very least,
some very valuable practical information
on policy large batch RL. It works.
Uh the only problem, right, is there's
not a good way to scale it to use more
compute and less data.
You can't revisit old data. That's the
big problem.
Off policy RL
off policy RL is a fundamentally worse
algorithm.
You use fundamentally worse algorithms
that are more scalable
because you can't do like a nice clean
bootstrap
single step diffusion. You're looking at
image based stuff, not really for state
based stuff here.
I just add a replay buffer for the world
model. Is this good enough?
It probably is.
sort of environments.
Um, a lot of them, right?
Any sort of high fidelity simulation,
a lot of games,
maybe some logistics, so I can probably
make that fast. A lot of robotics,
like high fidelity robotics.
The problem is there's just no in
between at the moment. It's like puffer
is good in high data regime or you use
the like god awful algorithms that are
slow as molasses. Do not like
it's just so bad. Like such a bad spot
for the field to be in.
Could
you restate the problem?
Sure. The problem I mean the overall
problem
that I'm trying to solve here is how do
we have an algorithm where we can spend
more compute
to get the same performance or better
performance with less data or we can
spend more data to use less compute.
current roadblock.
Um,
the fact that the
the world models kind of just crap
and it's tough. I'm I'm going to give it
a little bit more time,
but like
the world model's kind of just crap.
Honestly, this can just stay the same,
can't this?
Let's see what this does. Now, the world
model is being trained with a replay
buffer.
We'll see if that stabilizes it at all.
Well, it helps.
I mean, I guess that makes sense.
I still don't know if we can do
unlimited RL though, right?
wait with the RMS like R was it
recurrent state space model RSSM
what paper is that
is that original dreamer
Hang on.
Yeah, this is an LSTM.
It It's [__] Pong. You're predicting
four numbers. It should not be hard,
you know.
It should not be hard.
We'll see whether this changes it.
So, I already messed with I messed with
the RSSM uh in the context of Dreamer.
Really obnoxious architecture, mind you.
I think more so what was happening was
it's not like the architecture is not
expressive enough to predict literally
the four numbers representing Pong or
whatever. I think it was just that the
world model needs to really not be
trained with just onpaul data. It really
needs a buffer so it doesn't overfit.
I don't then like I don't think that's
going to be enough to do breakout. We'll
say
we still crashing.
I mean, I guess now we can do more
updates on the world model, right,
without overfitting.
Why would you remove the recurrence?
We'll see whether this is stable.
The SPS is depressing.
We'll see if it's stable.
see whether we get a solve out of this.
At the very least,
this is better than um
what we had before with stupid dreamer,
right?
Quite possible. I need to increase the
replay buffer as well.
Yeah, it's unstable. Damn it.
Still unstable is crazy.
keeping all the data now.
So now it can't um can't forget
Well, I have a whole bunch of um not a
whole bunch, but I have some meeting
stuff tomorrow.
Um
I have some meeting stuff to deal with
tomorrow.
I will try to get a stream in in the
afternoon.
I'm glad at least I got something
to work
a hem
oblige me by working. Thank you very
much.
Model.
Oh, zero entropy again.
What?
Zeroed the entropy on that.
No way.
Oh yeah, this literally can't be
different. It must be unlucky
because it can't drift apart before five
mil steps, right?
I have no idea what the heck is wrong
with this, but
we can at least go back to this one.
So this is this version.
Curious as to whether this uh does
anything meaningful.
Come on. Give me something to show.
Can it learn on its own imagined data or
will it overfit?
You can't train the world model on its
own imagined data. No.
Entropy is way too high.
and the only other option, right,
is to solve off Paul.
for what?
Like the only other thing I can see
right is to actually at an algorithmic
level figure out the onoff paw schism.
It's quite hard.
No idea what you're saying.
Polymorphist.
That even a real word
combined polymorphism and theist and
theism.
No, that's literally you just put two
words together.
No polymorphism,
no abstractions.
Well, whatever I've done here, I've
screwed the value function up massively,
right?
We can probably leave this alone. At
least I can say that we got decent perf
on Pong.
I mean to be fair though like this was
the exact potential problem
uh that I anticipated
with world model stuff
in general is basically like the best
version of this I can see working at
this point.
You need to invest. It's not like you
can add 50% more compute and make it
work better. There's a minimum
threshold.
That's so bad.
leave that going in the background. like
value function is
also dependent on the current policy,
right?
Oh, well that's non-trivial perf on
breakout.
So that's something at least.
Anything above seven is non-trivial.
Not great,
but that's the literal first
modelbased thing I've seen do that.
I'm trying to think what I should even
start looking at.
Oh, this thing is this is efficiency. I
don't even know why I'm looking at this.
Um,
the problem is that the only stuff that
actually works is based on
where is it?
Where's the derivation?
What
why don't they have did they remove the
derivation from this page?
They remove the derivation.
I think yeah there was where there used
to be a derivation
in lane wings RL's like fine I think
yeah so this
you don't need to use a Q
this is a weird version of That
spinning up used to have a good
derivation. I don't know what they did
with it.
Oh, here it is. Yeah, this is the uh the
derivation. It's like six line
derivation.
in.
We om on uh the buffer, but that's fine.
I actually So,
Is the correct mathematical
interpretation of the on policy
requirement that
because off policy trajectories become
increasingly unlikely under the policy
the gradient vanishes.
Is that the correct interpretation?
I mean,
I'm trying to think what else we do
here. Right.
I need to have like an absolutely
perfect I think understanding though of
the
for once I actually need to have a
perfect understanding of the math and
specifically I need to know exactly
where and how on policy assumption comes
into play.
I have a good understanding but not a
perfect understanding.
Well, I have some reading up to do
that meeting tomorrow super early. I'm
going to get some dinner.
We got a result.
We got a pretty clear result as well.
It makes a lot of sense in context now.
I suppose this was always going to be
the result, right?
All right. Well,
folks who've been watching here, this is
how research goes. Sometimes you get a
result. It's not the result you're
hoping for.
If you're interested in my stuff,
generally puffer.ai for all the things.
Follow the repo. It's free. It helps me
out a lot. Join Discord if you want to
get involved with development. It's all
open source. If you're looking to get
into reinforcement learning, you can
follow me on X for lots of content in
that space.
[Music]